AI and Democracy

As the technology of artificial intelligence (AI) progresses at a rapid pace, there is an increasing amount of worry about the misuse of AI in the real world. Specifically, AI100 2021 Study Panel Report asserts that it is potential for AI to threaten democracy and create fascism by disseminating false information on the internet (Littman et al., 2021). Although this concern is possible, it is only true on a small scale. From a wider perspective, AI helps reduce misinformation online and promotes democracy.

Admittedly, AI algorithms like deep fakes make it easier to spread false information, which may hurt democracy. However, there have been several solutions to tackle the issue. Kertysova (2018) indicates that improving the detection of synthesized videos or photos through forensic methods, requiring authentication of information before it goes public, and utilizing deep fakes algorithms to detect forged information could all prevent and restrict the misuse of deep fakes. Even though people with ulterior motives are capable to take advantage of AI to spread something bad, there is a way to detect false information and bring bad guys to justice. Therefore, the degree that malicious forged information could hurt democracy is limited and could be extenuated through various methods.

As a matter of fact, AI plays a great role in distinguishing false information that cannot be easily detected by human eyes, which finally boosts democracy. AI algorithms have been proven successful in filtering illicit and doubtful information on the internet. Large internet companies like Google, Facebook, and Twitter utilize AI algorithms to weed out trolls, identify and clean fake bot accounts, and analyze sensitive information (Kertysova, 2018). Although human users report misinformation online as well, their detection rate is much lower than that of AI tools. In Facebook, for example, AI tools spot approximately "100 percent of spam, 99.5 percent of terrorist-related removals, 98.5 percent of fake accounts, 96 percent of adult nudity and sexual activity, and 86 percent of graphic violence-related removals" (Marsden and Meyer, 2019). These rates are unprecedented, demonstrating AI's remarkable ability to effectively remove undesirable information online. If there were no AI, malicious information would show almost everywhere on the internet. Then, more people might be misled by false facts, which might incite a great sense of dissatisfaction with society. Thus, AI contributes to decreasing malicious information and increasing democracy.

In addition to reducing misinformation online, AI algorithms are able to benefit democracy in other ways. Cavaliere and Romeo (2022) discuss the potential advantages of using algorithms in democratic legitimization --- algorithms provide precise statistics about a particular political choice; algorithms accelerate procedures by shortening examination time; algorithms guarantee that the selective processes are efficient and the results are consistent. In other words, AI algorithms in democratic legitimization provide additional information to make legitimization more reasonable and faster, which will in the end promote democracy. 

In the conclusion, AI is a useful tool for building democracy in current society. Although malicious usage of AI might hurt democracy, it is detectable and limited. On the contrary, AI boosts democracy by reducing false information that humans cannot easily detect and increasing the rationality and efficiency of democratic legitimization. 
